Supersegments define the areas in which segments are generated. They are by default detected from land- and waterbodies, but can be loaded. Loaded supersegments are especially useful if you want to predefine larger areas for segments, such as countries.
As Supersegments influence segment generation, and segment generation influences province generation, Supersegments define clear borders for provinces.

Loading supersegments:
Please be aware that supersegment inputs must be solid colours. This means that you don't draw in borders, but you draw areas which will be a supersegment, and in which segments will be placed, staying inside these areas.
**When loading supersegments, please be aware that the tool will notify you of errors, where supersegments cross land/sea borders. It is recommended to fix this in the input file!**
To see where it doesn't match, a debug image will be visualised in the tool, the lower image. You can also find this image in the Maps/errors folder, called supersegmentErrors.png. 
Purple means water is part of a majority land supersegment, and red means land is part of a majority sea segment.
** Do not forget that you can find the autogenerated supersegments map in the "Maps" folder next to the executable, in case you want to modify them and then load them back in again.**

The tabs SuperSegments, Segments and Provinces allow two different types of input.
- Solid colour input with or without black (rgb 0,0,0) borders: These black borders are ignored and filled, they do not constitute an area. Having borders first helps creating a solid colour input image.
- Borders: This can be activated by clicking on the Borders input type radio button. Here, this loads anything that is between borders and coasts as an area. Using the Generate supersegment/segment/province template to draw in button, you can get three different templates in the Maps/areas folder of the tool. When you draw in these, you can create simple black (rgb 0,0,0) borders, which will be supersegment/segment/provinces borders.
This whole process allows you to craft very detailed country/state/province borders in a multi step process, as the tempaltes area based on each other. E.g. when you have finished drawing the supersegment borders and have loaded them, you can then generate a segment template that already has these borders in them, to craft your segment/state borders in there, load it, and proceed to provinces.

You may stop this process after every step, and use the default generation!
As an example, please see the example image in this extended help, you may need to scroll down.